README.md, before:

# logger
A software tool which reads supported file types from a directory and converts to the desired output form. Input processing is parallel, and output processing is single-threaded to a file.

## Building
Clone or download the repo from here.
On a system with Maven and Java 8+ installed, from the root of the project run:

`mvn clean package`

This will pull down dependencies, compile, test and package the tool.


## Running
The tool is built as a SpringBoot application, so can be simply run by calling:

`java -jar target/logger-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

By default, the tool will read the current directory for input files, and output any files it can convert to a file named output.txt.

Additional arguments can be supplied to the tool (in specified order):

`java -jar target/logger-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar inputDirectory/ outputFileName`


## Files types and extending the tool
The tool identifies files based on the extension only. The extension allows the `HandlerFactory` to give the appropiate Handler instance back to the application.

To add support for a different file type, a new implementation of the `Handler` interface would be written and supporting configuration to bind this implementation added to `app.properties`


## Logging
Logging is very simple and is provided by the `Trace` class. Logs go to STDOUT.

## Performance and scalability
The tool uses a thread pool to concurrently process input files, and the size of this pool is controlled by the `logger.input.threads` property in the embedded `app.properties` confguration file.

Altering this value to take best advantage of the CPU, memory and I/O capacity of your system will give the best throughput.

For larger workloads, multiple copies of this tool would run, potentially on different machines, each reading from a distinct input directory and producing a distinct output file, for later combination.

The tool was timed on a 6-core system processing 8000 files in 2.3 seconds. XML file processing is significantly more expensive than JSON processing.

## Patterns used
### Singleton
- Used for the central `Config` cache which holds the tool configuration.
- Used for the `Mapper` singleton object.

### Factory
- Used in `HandlerFacory` to construct and cache the appropriate Handler object for a file type.

### Facade
- Simple use of a facade in `Trace` for the trace logging. The implementation is naive, but as all trace logging calls go through the facade, it will allow simple retrofitting of log4j or other configurable logging engines.

Commit message:

Additional note on adding REST endpoint with SpringBoot.

README.md, after:

# logger
A software tool which reads supported file types from a directory and converts to the desired output form. Input processing is parallel, and output processing is single-threaded to a file.

## Building
Clone or download the repo from here.
On a system with Maven and Java 8+ installed, from the root of the project run:

`mvn clean package`

This will pull down dependencies, compile, test and package the tool.


## Running
The tool is built as a SpringBoot application, so can be simply run by calling:

`java -jar target/logger-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar`

By default, the tool will read the current directory for input files, and output any files it can convert to a file named output.txt.

Additional arguments can be supplied to the tool (in specified order):

`java -jar target/logger-0.1-SNAPSHOT.jar inputDirectory/ outputFileName`


## Files types and extending the tool
The tool identifies files based on the extension only. The extension allows the `HandlerFactory` to give the appropiate Handler instance back to the application.

To add support for a different file type, a new implementation of the `Handler` interface would be written and supporting configuration to bind this implementation added to `app.properties`

The use of SpringBoot as a packaging and runtime framework would allow the easy addition of a REST endpoint, for enquiring on processing status - something which is useful across a fleet of instances in a production context.


## Logging
Logging is very simple and is provided by the `Trace` class. Logs go to STDOUT.


## Performance and scalability
The tool uses a thread pool to concurrently process input files, and the size of this pool is controlled by the `logger.input.threads` property in the embedded `app.properties` confguration file.

Altering this value to take best advantage of the CPU, memory and I/O capacity of your system will give the best throughput.

For larger workloads, multiple copies of this tool would run, potentially on different machines, each reading from a distinct input directory and producing a distinct output file, for later combination.

The tool was timed on a 6-core system processing 8000 files in 2.3 seconds. XML file processing is significantly more expensive than JSON processing.


## Patterns used
### Singleton
- Used for the central `Config` cache which holds the tool configuration.
- Used for the `Mapper` singleton object.

### Factory
- Used in `HandlerFacory` to construct and cache the appropriate Handler object for a file type.

### Facade
- Simple use of a facade in `Trace` for the trace logging. The implementation is naive, but as all trace logging calls go through the facade, it will allow simple retrofitting of log4j or other configurable logging engines.
